EBS:

    Block based storage
    EC2 instance and volume have to be in the same AZ

    Volume snapshots help in copying data from an AZ to another

    Copy snapshot into an S3 bucket of the desired region and then create a volume from the snapshot in the new region.

    General SSD balance performance and price

    Provisioned IOPS SSD critical, IOPS intensive throughput-intensive workloads

Instance Store:

    Temporary block level storage that remains on the physical host

    so if an instance is moved to a different physical host the data will be wiped because it would be on a new host

    A reboot does not move the instance to a different physical host

    Stopping the instance, for a couple minutes, then restarting the instance will move it to a new physical host. 


EFS:
    File based storage
    Create a mount target in an AZ in order for instances to mount and access.

    Mount target becomes an ip addr

    only available for linux

    supports NFS v4 protocol

    Can be mounted but cannot be booted


FSx:
    File based storage 

    High performance file storage, wide range of workloads

    other OS's can use

    Managed service, AWS is responsible for prisioning file servers and managing volumes/replicating data/pathcing file server/ addressing hardware issues/manual backups

    SMB protocol, Server Message Block, windows default while nfs is linux default ... can integrate with MS Active Directory


    FSx Lustre is the only that is single AZ


S3:

    Object storage

    S3 auto replicates your files across multiple ZA's and instances

    can handle unlimited amounts of object4s

    Max of 5TB for an individual file

    accounts support 100 buckets, by default, and can be increased to 1000

    bucket names have to be globally unique

    supports multi part upload which allows you to break up an object into parts before uploading. Uploading a file bigger than 5GB than multi part upload is required. It's recommended for files bigger than 100MB.

S3 Storage Classes:

    Standard - objects replicated across 3 AZ's, low latency, durability

    Standard-IA - objects replicated across 3 AZ's, 11 9's of durability, low latency, retrival fee and duration charge for at least 30 days once the file is uploaded. Minimum. Infrequent access and bigger files are recommended.

    S3 One Zone-IA - replicated on 1 Zone. Same charging as standard just a replication difference. 

    S3 Glacier - rarely accessed data, archival data. Across 3 AZ's and can be accessed within seconds. 90 file duration charge, cheaper than standard and IA.

    S3 Glacier Flexible - Cold storage, Objects aren't immediately available. 

    S3 Glacier Deep Archive -  

    S3 Intelligent Tiering - Auto reduces storage costs by intelligently moving data to the most cost-effective access tier. You're charged for tiered monitoring service.

    Don't need immediate access but rarely frequent, go with glacier

    Frequent, go with standard

    Immediate access but infrequent, standard-IA or One Zone-IA


Versioning:

    you are charged for all of the versions that exist

    Suspended versioning, you'll have to manually delete the existing versions

    Versioning is disabled by default

    Versioning has to be enabled at the bucket level and cannot be enabled for individual objects

    Versioning states - unversioned|version enabled|versioning suspended

    Bucket cannot move back to an unversioned state affer versioning has been enabled

    IAM policies are attached to users or groups and tells them what they can do. Resource policies are attached to a resource and allows what a user can do. 

    IAM and resource policies work together so IAM and resource policies have to allow certain actions for the workflow to function as intended. 


Pre-Signed URLs:

    want to allow access to specific public users

    presigned urls use sec creds to grant time-limited permissions to download objects

    when another user clocks the url, they are performing a request to AWS API with the identity of the user that created the presigned url.



    expiration date must be provided

    max expiration date of 7 days 

    The presigned url does not give you access to a bucket, it only allows you to send a request to s3 as the user that generate the url


Access Points:

    simplifies management of access to s3 buckets

    every group/user can be given their own access point that acts as a tunnel into an s3 bucket

    every AP has it's own ARN

    can be used to restrict access to bucket to devices in specific VPC's

Elastic Disaster Recover:

    fully manage distaster recovery service for physical, virtual and cloud based servers

    customers can use AWS as a recovery site instead of investing in on prem disaster recovery infrastructure

    source servers, are the servers/data that we want to replicate

    staging area, the location where AWS will receive the replicated data.

    launch template, used to configure the specs of the recovery servers. (size, region/subnet, security group)


Storage Gateway:

    different modes, volume|file|tape










